The Regression Test Harness for the OpenJDK platform: jtreg


Introduction

jtreg is designed to run test programs written according to the JDK Test 
Framework: Tag Language Specification, on a wide-variety of Java™ platforms, 
and specifically those platforms supported by JDK.

This README contains basic information about this version of jtreg. 
Please see the doc/ directory for more information.


Release Notes.

This is jtreg, version 4.2. jtreg is to designed as a set of extensions to
Oracle's JavaTest harness, which is also available under an open source license
under the name JT Harness.


System Requirements

The following sections provide the recommended system requirements for running 
jtreg.

- Java platform
    A platform equivalent to JDK 1.8.0 or later is required.

- Memory
    It is recommended that you run jtreg on a computer having at least 256M of 
    physical memory.
 

Running tests

You can either execute the jtreg.jar file directly, or you can use of the
the wrapper scripts provided in one of the platform-specific bin directories.

To run the JDK regression tests, it is common to set your current directory
to the root of your repository, and execute a command
of the form:
    
    > jtreg -jdk:<build-image> <tests>
 
where <build-image> represents the path for where you have built JDK, and <tests>
specifies one or more tests or folders of tests in the repository's test/ directory.

Your repository may also provide a NetBeans project that provides Ant targets
to run some or all of the tests in your repository. See the documentation for
your repository for more details.


Files and Directories

Name 	        Description
README	        This file
COPYRIGHT 	Copyright information
LICENSE         License file
doc/            Documentation files
legal/          Copyright and license files for JavaTest or JT Harness
lib/     	Directory containing the JAR files needed to run jtreg
bin/ 		Miscellaneous utility script for use on Linux, Solaris
		and for Cygwin on Microsoft Windows platforms

